---
title: "Setup wikipage on localhost"
categories:
  - Linux
  - Vim
  - Wiki
tags:
  - Linux
  -
last_modified_at: 2023-05-19
---

# Intro
This guide the first in a series that aims to show how to install and setup your own vimviki page that serves .md files on a local webserver that is easily accesible and pretty to look at.
There are multiple steps for getting this to work and some of them are optional.
This guide is written for users of I3 and is aimed for RHEL9 workstation, therefore some of the functionality might not work for other dekstop environments such as gnome etc.
Other distro's running i3 can use this guide to make it work but they will have to change the install of prerequisites to fit their packetmanager.
Setup of i3 and configuring dropdown menus for it is out of scope for this post but it will be documented at a later date.



# Prerequisites

To get started we need to install some programs and gems

```bash
sudo dnf install -y ruby ruby-devel rubygems
```

Make sure you have ruby that is version 2.1 or higher this is required for jekyll to work, and make sure gems was installed correctly:
```bash
ruby --version
ruby 2.5.9p229 (2021-04-05 revision 67939) [x86_64-linux]

gem -v
2.7.6.3
```

Install jekyll
```bash
gem install jekyll bundler
```

Make sure that gem is installing to a location where the user have write permissions, we can set this in the cli like this:
```bash
bundle config path ~/.local/share/gems/cache                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ─╯

```
To avoid having to point to the path for each shell session it is a good idea to open up ~/.bashrc or ~/.bash_profile to add it there so that it autosets on a new session.
```bash
export BUNDLE_PATH="$HOME/.local/share/gems/cache"
```

Once this is installed we can go to a folder were we would like our jekyll site to live on our hostmachine and type the following command to spawn a scaffolding for our wikipage
```bash
jekyll new wikipage
```
This will install the basis of the site which we will build upon, to view this website run these commands.
```bash
cd wikipage
jekyll serve
```
You can now open http://127.0.0.1:4000 in your webbrowser to take a look at the basic jekyll site which we will customize

Now that we have a basic jekyll site up and running we can start to customize it.
To do this we are going to follow the setup guide for a nice theme called minimal-mistakes-jekyll

1. Simply add the following to your Gemfile:
```bash
gem "minimal-mistakes-jekyll"
```
2. Run bundle to install the theme:
```bash
bundle
```
3. Set the new theme in the _config.yml file
```bash
theme: minimal-mistakes-jekyll
```
4. Update jekyll to use the new theme we provided:
```bash
bundle update
```

In the next post i will explain how i set this up for easy access using fzf and i3 dropdown menu's.
This is a super simple and easy way to document things and also edit this webpage in general.
The thing that makes this powerfull is when you combine this steps above and containerize it, you will then be able to use your todolist localhost website whereever you go ;)
